doc/backburner.md, before:

# Stuff to do eventually

## Mistakes

### Bounded arithmetic
#### Sort.ArbitraryInteger vs Sort.BoundedInteger, bounded prims
#### Boxing/unboxing integers is confusing and opposite, makes generating expressions more complicated than necessary.

Probably each numeric prim should probably take a Num type specifying what precision it works on.

#### Overflow checks occur for operations inside false conditionals
See lark.examples.bug.IntegerOverflow.

An expression like `if x > 0 then x - 1 else 0` is obviously safe, but if you put streaming operators inside the conditions it gets a bit subtle.

#### Bounded arithmetic counterexamples are confusing
There are a few issues with counterexamples:
* slicing machinery doesn't work with them because they don't exist on node level
* ~~when a bounded-of-logical fails, the logical-of-bounded gets a non-deterministic value. crazy.~~ (this is partially fixed in counterexample-printing, which tries to evaluate and prints overflows as "overflow")

### SMT.Translate
* ~~SMT.Translate should use node.Node instead of node.Builder~~
* SMT.System should use term.Exp with a separate Exp->SMTLib step


### ~~Core language: merge => match~~
Change the "merge" construct in nodes to match on small types.
This will make it easier to bake the clocks later and simplify some of the codegen.

## Missing features

### Expressions missing source location
Source location should be available everywhere.

### Core language: local variables in nested contexts
Maybe nested contexts should be able to declare local variables. Might simplify some checks.

### `Const[T]` and top-level constants

Currently all top-level constants get substituted into the program.
Core langauge should allow top-level definitions and source langauge could refer to them as `Const[T] extends Stream[T]`.

### ~~Sneaky invariants:~~ (partially implemented)
Add a check that a node only refers to explicit outputs of its subnodes.
I want two "sneaky modes" that let you dig into the guts.
One just disables the output-only check for that reference, the other allows a DOM-style tree search for references.

Suppose the following invariant fails the outputs check because you're touching a non-output variable:
```
val lastn = LastN(5, e)

check() {
  lastn.count <= 5
}
```

Then you would instead say:
```
check() {
  sneaky(lastn.count) <= 5
}
```

Or with the DOM-style reference:
```
check() {
  sneaky.node("LastN").variable[UInt32]("count") <= 5
}
```


### Attaching "lemmas" to nodes
If we have a verification-only node that states some property, it won't get checked unless it's a subnode of some other node, or explicitly called at the top-level.
Perhaps we need some way to define "lemma nodes" that are attached to some other node, and are automatically instantiated to be checked when their target node is instantiated.
```
def plus(x, y) = node ...

plus.lemma {
  val x = forall[UInt32]
  val y = forall[UInt32]
  check("commutative") { plus(x, y) == plus(y, x) }
}
```

Commit message:

Equivalence: start on equivalence-graph-based invariant generation
The equivalence pass is supposed to find the invariants that are
obvious on the pure, stream-based semantics, but less clear on the
transition system. The idea is that we can apply rewrites such as
```
pre (f e)   = f (pre e)
f (e -> e') = f e -> f e'
```
to saturation using an equivalence graph.

So far it only pulls out recursive bindings to a nameless form so
that `count = (0 -> pre count) + 1` becomes
`count = µ. (0 -> pre µ0) + 1` which we can compare for equality
with other recursive bindings without the names getting in the way.

doc/backburner.md, after:

# Stuff to do eventually

## Mistakes

### Bounded arithmetic
#### Sort.ArbitraryInteger vs Sort.BoundedInteger, bounded prims
#### Boxing/unboxing integers is confusing and opposite, makes generating expressions more complicated than necessary.

Probably each numeric prim should probably take a Num type specifying what precision it works on.

#### Overflow checks occur for operations inside false conditionals
See lark.examples.bug.IntegerOverflow.

An expression like `if x > 0 then x - 1 else 0` is obviously safe, but if you put streaming operators inside the conditions it gets a bit subtle.

#### Bounded arithmetic counterexamples are confusing
There are a few issues with counterexamples:
* slicing machinery doesn't work with them because they don't exist on node level
* ~~when a bounded-of-logical fails, the logical-of-bounded gets a non-deterministic value. crazy.~~ (this is partially fixed in counterexample-printing, which tries to evaluate and prints overflows as "overflow")

### SMT.Translate
* ~~SMT.Translate should use node.Node instead of node.Builder~~
* SMT.System should use term.Exp with a separate Exp->SMTLib step


### ~~Core language: merge => match~~
Change the "merge" construct in nodes to match on small types.
This will make it easier to bake the clocks later and simplify some of the codegen.

### Rename merge/when to match/case
Rename merge/when everywhere to fit with Scala a bit better

## Missing features

### Expressions missing source location
Source location should be available everywhere.

### Core language: local variables in nested contexts
Maybe nested contexts should be able to declare local variables. Might simplify some checks.

### `Const[T]` and top-level constants

Currently all top-level constants get substituted into the program.
Core langauge should allow top-level definitions and source langauge could refer to them as `Const[T] extends Stream[T]`.

### ~~Sneaky invariants:~~ (partially implemented)
Add a check that a node only refers to explicit outputs of its subnodes.
I want two "sneaky modes" that let you dig into the guts.
One just disables the output-only check for that reference, the other allows a DOM-style tree search for references.

Suppose the following invariant fails the outputs check because you're touching a non-output variable:
```
val lastn = LastN(5, e)

check() {
  lastn.count <= 5
}
```

Then you would instead say:
```
check() {
  sneaky(lastn.count) <= 5
}
```

Or with the DOM-style reference:
```
check() {
  sneaky.node("LastN").variable[UInt32]("count") <= 5
}
```


### Attaching "lemmas" to nodes
If we have a verification-only node that states some property, it won't get checked unless it's a subnode of some other node, or explicitly called at the top-level.
Perhaps we need some way to define "lemma nodes" that are attached to some other node, and are automatically instantiated to be checked when their target node is instantiated.
```
def plus(x, y) = node ...

plus.lemma {
  val x = forall[UInt32]
  val y = forall[UInt32]
  check("commutative") { plus(x, y) == plus(y, x) }
}
```
